Pi is used in formulas concerned with the dimensions of circles. 
Actually, the engine displacement formula is the standard formula for computing the volume of a cylinder of any type with an added factor that represents the number of cylinders in the engine. 


The cross-sectional area of the cylinders is determined and then the volume of the individual cylinders is computed by multiplying the area by the stroke length, which is the equivalent of the length of the cylinders. 


Multiplying the result by the number of cylinders in the engine gives the engine's total displacement. 
The formula is : Afj. 


Dimensions in inches, and fractions of inches will give the displacement in cubic inches. 


Dimensions in centimeters and fractions of centimeters will give the displacement in cubic centimeters (cc. 
). 


One inch equals 2.54 centimeters : one cubic inch equals 16.38 cubic centimeters. 
For example, let 's consider a standard 283 cubic inch Chevy Afj. 


These engines have a cylinder diameter of 3-78 inches and a stroke length of 3 inches. 


The formula, with the fractions converted to decimals, becomes Afj. 
To arrive at the answer, multiply the numbers together by starting at the left of the group and working to the right. 
The different steps will look like this : Afj. 
Compression ratio A cylinder's compression ratio is computed by comparing the cylinder's volume, or its displacement, with the total volume of the cylinder and its combustion chamber. 


Cylinder volume can be determined mathematically but combustion chamber volume must be measured with a liquid. 
Cylinder volume is determined in exactly the same manner as for the displacement formula : Afj. 
To measure the volume of one of the combustion chambers in the cylinder head, install the valves and spark plug in the chamber and support the head so that its gasket surface is level. 


Then pour water or light oil from a graduated beaker into the chamber to fill the chamber to its gasket surface. 


Do not overfill the chamber. 


This is possible with water and other liquids that have a high surface tension. 


Such liquids will rise to a considerable height above the surface around the chamber before they will flow out of the chamber. 
The amount of liquid poured into the chamber is determined by subtracting the quantity still in the beaker when the chamber is full from the original quantity. 


Most beakers are graduated in cubic centimeters (cc.), making it necessary to convert the result to cubic inches. 


However, the displacement of the cylinder can be converted to cubic centimeters. 


The compression ratio arrived at with the formula will be the same regardless of whether cubic inches or cubic centimeters are used. 


The only precaution is that all volumes used in the formula be quoted in the same terms. 
The volume of the cylinder opening in the head gasket must be computed by multiplying its area in square inches by the gasket's thickness in thousandths of an inch. 


Sometimes it is necessary to roughly calculate the square inch area of the opening but the calculation can usually be made with sufficient accuracy that it won't affect the final computation. 


The volume of the opening is added to the combustion chamber volume. 
Another thing that must be taken into consideration is the volume of the area between the top of the piston and the top of the cylinder block when the piston is in top dead center position. 


Compute this volume by measuring the distance from the top of the block to the piston head as accurately as possible with a depth micrometer or some other precision measuring device and then multiply the area of the cylinder by the depth. 


The formula for this step is : Afj. 


This volume is added to the total volume of the combustion chamber and head gasket opening. 


The total of these three volumes is the "final combustion chamber volume". 
After the factors just described have been computed, they are applied to the following formula : Afj. 
For an example let's dream up an engine that has a final combustion chamber volume of 5 cubic inches and a cylinder volume of 45 cubic inches. 


Applying these figures to the formula we get the equation : Afj. 


The compression ratio is 10 to 1. 
This method of computing compression ratio can not be used accurately for engines that have pistons with either domed or irregularly shaped heads. 


Any irregularity on the piston heads will make it impossible, with normal means, to determine the final combustion chamber volume because the volume displaced by the piston heads can not be readily computed. 


The only way to determine the final combustion chamber volume when such pistons are used is by measuring it with liquid while the cylinder head is bolted to the cylinder block and the piston is in top dead center position. 
Gear ratio -- speed relationships There are four versions of the formula that involves the relationships of car speed, engine speed, rear axle gear ratio, and rear tire size. 


By using the appropriate version any one of these factors can be determined for any combination of the other three. 
To simplify the formulas a representative symbol is substituted for each of the factors. 


These are MPH for Car speed, for Engine crankshaft speed, for Rear axle gear ratio, for Tire size. 
Tire size can be determined in several ways but the one that is the easiest and as accurate as any is by measuring the effective radius of a wheel and tire assembly. 


This is done by measuring the distance from the surface on which the tire is resting to the center of the rear axle shaft. 


A tire must be inflated to its normal hot operating pressure and the car must be loaded to its operating weight when this measurement is made. 


The measurement must be in inches. 


Any fraction of an inch involved in the measurement must be converted to a decimal equivalent to simplify the mathematics. 


When tire size is measured in this manner a constant of 168 is used in the formula. 
To determine car speed for a given combination of engine speed, gear ratio, and tire size, the formula is : Afj. 


For an engine speed of 5000 rpm, a gear ratio of 4.00 to 1, and a tire radius of 13 inches, the equation would look like this : Afj. 
To determine engine speed for a given combination of the other three factors the formula is : Afj. 


Using the same figures as for the previous example, the equation becomes : Afj. 
To determine the rear axle gear ratio for a combination of the other three factors, the formula is : Afj. 


Using the figures from the previous examples, the equation becomes : Afj. 



Orlando, Fla., Feb. 2 -- The best 2-year-old pacing mile up to date at Ben White Raceway has been that of Mary Liner (Mainliner-Highland Ellen), a member of the Dick Williams stable, who was clocked 2:25. 


She is owned by Ralph H. Kroening, Milwaukee, Wis., who, according to the railbirds, can feel justly proud of her. 
Other good miles have been by Debonnie (Dale Frost-Debby Hanover) and Prompt Time (Adios-On Time) in 2:28-:36; Kimberly Gal (Galophone-Kimberly Hanover) 2:26.2; Laguerre Hanover (Tar Heel-Lotus Hanover) and Monel (Tar Heel-Miracle Byrd) in 2:34. 


Laguerre Hanover is outstanding in type and conformation -- good body, plenty of heart girth, stands straight on his legs on excellent feet -- and has the smoothest gait. 


This colt is behind most of the other 2-year-olds in the Simpson stable but can show about as much pace as any of them. 


Monel shows improvement with each work-out and looks the makings of a good brood mare after winning her share of races. 
Stardel (Star's Pride-Starlette Hanover), 2:34, looks quite promising. 


Fury Hanover (Hoot Mon-Fay), Caper (Hoot Mon-Columbia Hanover) and Isaac (Hoot Mon-Goddess Hanover) has been working together but have not equalled their best work done some weeks ago. 


Fury and Caper worked in 2:35 and did it with ease. 


They are two good colts of different type. 


Fury is upstanding and on the rangy side, and Caper is more the compact type. 


I have never seen Caper off his feet -- he seems to know nothing but' trot' and keeps trying a little harder if asked to do so. 


Fury has made a few mistakes but looks like a wonderful prospect, with his impressive gait and stride which certainly make him cover the ground. 
Trackdown (Torrid-Mighty Lady) has worked a mile in 2:33.3. 
It took this colt several weeks to strike a pace. 


Then, after emasculation, he was eased up for a couple of weeks. 


He has thrived on all he has gone through and looks the makings of a good little race horse. 
Thor Hanover (Adios-Trustful Hanover) is a wonderful looking prospect and another good individual, with solid, rugged conformation, good, flat bone and excellent feet. 


This colt arrived at the Raceway early last November, and immediately was put into harness and line-driven for a few days, and then put to cart and broken in very nicely, knowing nothing but trot. 


He appeared in the hopples about November 14, was treated for worms on the 18th, the latter date being the first time he struck a real pace. 


On December 5 he paced a mile in 55 on the twice-around, out in third position all the way. 


This colt has done everything asked of him, and done it with ease. 


His best mile to date is 2:32.2. 
Gamecock (Tar Heel-Terka Hanover) is another promising colt, and his best time is 2:32.2. 


This is one of the best-tempered Tar Heels ever at the center. 


The first time he was harnessed he stood like a gentle old mare; the crupper under his tail seemed to be old stuff. 


The fourth time in harness he walked off like a gentleman. 


Being blistered for curbs has delayed his work somewhat. 
But up to date he has shown as much as any in the big Simpson stable. 
Hustler (Knight Dream-Torkin) is a playful bay rascal of a colt, not the best gaited, but he surely can pace and is right there with them, and sometimes leading them, in the best miles. 


Torrid Freight (Torrid-Breeze On Hal) is a very rugged, strong-made colt with a wonderful stride who has done with ease everything asked of him. 


His best time is around 2:33. 
Strongheart (Adios-Direct Gal), a fair-looking sorrel colt, knows nothing but pace and has been right there in the best miles. 


Torrid Adios (Torrid-Adios Molly) is not so masculine as most of the colts, but I like his type and he certainly is one of the best-gaited pacers on the grounds. 


Blistered for curbs and laid off three weeks, he is coming along fine and looks like a pacer to me. 


First Flyer (Frisco Flyer-Castle Light) looks like a splendid candidate for the Illinois Stakes. 


His best time is 2:33.2. 
The colts in Simpson's stable have little if anything on the fillies, especially the pacers. 


Justine Hanover (Sampson Hanover-Justitia Hanover) is improving with each work-out and paced 2:32.4 weeks ago. 
Mrs. Freight (Knight Dream-Miss Reed) shows promise and does it in good form, and her best time is about 2:35. 


Hoopla (Tar Heel-Holiday Hanover), a filly that wanted to trot, knocked herself October 31 and November 1 fighting the hopples. 


She was then trained on the trot until December 29, hitched to a breaking cart once around the half-mile track and hoppled again. 


This time she submitted and in a few days was going good. 


On January 11 she paced a mile in 2:43.1--:38; on Jan. 18 2:37.3--:36.1; on Jan. 21,, 2:36. 
This filly is a much better individual than either of her full-sisters, Valentine Day and Cerise -- more scale and much better underpinning. 


She is more like her full brother, Taraday Hanover, but larger. 
Up to date she is a grand-looking filly. 
Pete Dailey has four promising 2-year-old pacers. 


Marquis Pick (Gene Abbe-Direct Grattan) seems to be the pick of the stable at the present time. 


He is a fine-looking colt with a good body, good set of legs and nice way of going. 


His best mile to date is 2:28-:33. 


Majestic Pick comes next, with a mile in 2:30-:33.2. 


This colt is another fine-looking equine. 


Staley Hanover (Knight Dream-Sweetmite Hanover) is a little on the small side but a very compact colt and looks like one to stand training and many future battles with colts in his class. 


Best time to date is 2:34-:34. 


Step Aside (Direct Rhythm-Wily Widow) has worked in 2:32 on the half-mile track and shows promise. 
Most of Billy Haughton's 2-year-olds have worked from 2:40 to 2:35. 


Bonnie Wick (Gene Abbe-Scotch Mary) has gone in 2:36; Hickory Ash (Titan Hanover-Misty Hanover) in 2:35. 


The first time I saw the latter filly she trotted by me and I noticed such a family resemblance that I said to myself, "that must be Hickory Ash". 


She is a beautiful filly and likes to trot. 


Hickory Hill (Star's Pride-Venus Hanover) has gone in 2:33; Hickory Spark (Harlan-Hickory Tiny) 2:37; Buxton Hanover (Tar Heel-Beryl Hanover) 2:35; Faber's Kathy (Faber Hanover-Ceyway) 2:37; Honor Rodney (Rodney-Honor Bright) around 2:40. 


The last-named is a fine-looking, large colt, who has been unfortunate to be laid off for some time due to injuries. 


He is going sound again now, and looks good. 
Brief Candle (Harlan-Marcia) has gone in 2:37; Lena Faber (Faber Hanover-Chalidale Lena) 2:33; Martha Rodney (Rodney-Miss Martha D.) 2:35; Checkit (Faber Hanover-Supermarket) 2:35; Charm Rodney (Rodney-The Charmer) 2:37; Fair Sail (Farvel-Topsy Herring) 2:36; Custom Maid (Knight Dream-Way Dream) 2:34.2; Jacky Dares ((Meadow Gene-Princess Lorraine) 2:36; Good Flying (Good Time-Olivette Hanover) 2:36; Bordner Hanover (Tar Heel-Betty Mahone) 2:34; Faber's Choice (Faber Hanover-Sally Joe Whippet) 2:36; Invercalt (Florican-Inverness) 2:35; Duffy Dares (Meadow Gene-Princess Mite) 2:36; Harold J. (Worthy Boy-Lady Scotland) 2:36; Knightfall (Knight Dream-Miss Worthy Grapes) 2:36; Next Knight (Knight Dream-Next Time) 2:36; Trader Jet (Florican-My Precious) 2:37; Trader Rich (Worthy Boy-Marquita Hanover) 2:37; Good Little Girl (Good Time-Mynah Hanover) 2:36; Iosola Hanover (Kimberly Kid-Isoletta Hanover) 2:36. 


The last-named is one of the favorites in the stable, and the boys like her very much. 


I will be able to tell you more about this string of equines in the near future. 
I have just seen Debonnie and Prompt Time work a mile in 2:34, last quarter in :35.3. 


In going away Debonnie got behind several lengths, stalling at the start -- she is a little fussy. 
They left the three-quarters together and finished almost together. 
Prompt Time shows class. 


This filly is another Adios that wants to trot, and trot she did until forced to do otherwise. 


After well broken and equipped with 12-oz. shoes on behind, bare-footed in front, she would trot a real storm with the master, Delvin, driving. 
Being placed in the hopples she was completely baffled. 


She hesitated, she hopped, she rolled and rocked, skipped and jumped, but in some two weeks she started to pace, From that time to this she has shown steady improvement and now looks like one of the classiest things on the grounds. 
Rain on Friday prevented many workouts, but there were a few miles of note on Thursday. 


Those responsible included Stardel Hanover (Star's Pride-Starlette Hanover), 2:30-:34.3; Lorena Gallon (Bill Gallon-Loren Hanover), 2:30-:34.3; Prudent Hanover (Dean Hanover-Precious Hanover), 2:30.3-:35.3; Premium Freight (Titan Hanover-Pebble Hanover), 2:30.3-35.3; Laguerre Hanover ((Tar Heel-Lotus Hanover), 2:30.3-:36.1; Monel (Tar Heel-Miracle Byrd), 2:30.3-:36.1; Fury Hanover (Hoot Mon-Fay), 2:30.3-:36; Isaac (Hoot Mon-Goddess Hanover), 2:30.3-:36; Caper (Hoot Mon-Columbia Hanover), 2:30.3-:36; Lucky Freight (Knight Dream-Lusty Helen), 2:31.3-:35.3. 
Sam Caton's Butterwyn (Scotch Victor-Butler Wyn), a light bay filly, knows nothing but trot and has worked on the half-mile in 2:30-:36. 


Riverboat (Dalzell-Cousin Rachel) has gone in 2:38. 


Sam is having his troubles with Layton Hanover (Dean Hanover-Lucy Hanover), but hopes to have him straightened out and going before long. 
Jimmy Jordon is high on Adios Scarlet (Adios-Rena Grattan) and she sure looks good as she goes by. 


Her best time to date is about 2:30. 


He also likes Hampton Hanover (Titan Hanover-Bertie Hanover) 2:37. 


Cathy J. Hanover (Tar Heel-Kaola Hanover), formerly called Karet Hanover, has been rather a problem child, but is getting better all the while and can pace a twice around in about 2:31. 


Armbro Comet (Nibble Hanover-Mauri Hanover) has been in 2:38. 
Flick Nipe's and Neil Engle's Miss Phone (Galophone-Prissy Miss) is a fine-looking filly with good disposition and good gait, and she has worked up to date in 2:46. 
Del Mar, Calif., Feb. 3 -- After 52 rainless days, moisture finally came to Del Mar, resulting in but one workout during the week for most of the horses, and leaving us with less than half our total average rainfall during the season. 
While 2-year-olds are still gaining most of the attention at the track, green horses are starting to go a bit, and Jimmy Cruise has several that can really make it. 


Work-outs for the week are as follows : Plain Scotch, 3 (by Scotch Victor), Demon Law, 3 (by Demon Hanover), Coffee Royal, p (by Royal Blackstone) and Beauty Way, p, 3 (by Demon Hanover) in 25; Eddie Duke, p, 3 (by Duke Of Lullwater), Marilyn C., p (by Sampson Hanover) and Chalidale Barry, 5 (by King's Ransom) in 2:20; Tiger Hanover, p, 3 (by Adios) in 2:26; Sherwood Lass, 4 (by Victory Song) in 2:22; and Dauntless, 3 (by Greentree Adios) in 2:32. 


For the aged horses : Mr. Budlong, p, 2:00.2, Lottie Thomas, p, 2:04.2, Mighty Signal 2:03, Clever Braden, p, 2:01.1, and Glow Star, p, 2:02.3 have been in 2:35; Miss Demon Abbe, p, 1:59.3 has trotted in 2:26, and is expected to race at this gait; Carter Creed, p, 3, 2:01.1, Great Lullwater 2:00.3, and Hi Jay, p, 2:05.1 have been in 2:30; Tanker T., 3, 2:05.3 is now wearing hopples and has trained in 2:19; Stormy Dream, p, 2:01.3, Demon Abbe, p, 2:02, Dundeen B., 4, 2:04.2, Claudia's Song, 3, 2:06.3, and (Jet Fire, 4, 2:02.2 have been in 2:25; Maria Key, 2, 2:06 looked great in 2:22; Mocking Byrd, p, 2:01.1 has been in 2:12, with a racing date approaching at Bay Meadows. 
Dewey Urban has a clever green trotter in Dr. Orin I., 3 (by Yankee Hanover), his latest mile in 2:20; Victory Sun, p, 2:04 has trained in 2:24; Early Sun, p, 2:02.3, Chester Maid 2:05, Dark Sun, p, 2:06.1, and Sun Tan Maid 2:05.2 have been in 2:21. 



The average reader of this magazine owns more than one gun (we ran a survey to find out) but he's always on the lookout for new and better arms. 


He's more than a reader of outdoor articles; he's a real hunter and shooter, eager to improve his sport. 


Well, if you're that kind of sportsman we're here to help you. 


You've probably given a lot of Christmas-season thought to the guns in your rack, but it's not easy to decide on a new one. 


You still have time to drop a few hints about the gifts you'd appreciate most; the time to decide on them is now. 


As a Christmas service, I've taken a close look at this year's crop of new models. 


Here they are, with my comments and judgments. 


Read on, take your pick -- and start dropping those hints. 
First on my own list would be two arms -- a rifle and a handgun -- that qualify as new in the strictest sense. 


For me, a changed barrel length or an improved stock doesn't constitute a truly new design. 


Such modifications are all for the best but it takes something as different as a Deerstalker or a Jet to change arms-making concepts. 
Bill Ruger's long-awaited Deerstalker (under $ 110) is a new rifle action in a caliber that upsets all the modern theory of high-velocity fans; it's a short, light, quick-handling, fast-firing little timber gun designed to push a heavy slug at modest velocity but with lots of killing power and ample range for our most popular big game -- whitetail. 
Ruger reports that on his recent African safari the little Magnum cartridge was a real work horse. 


Small antelope were generally grassed with one shot, and the Magnum carbine also bagged reedbuck, kob and wart hog with deadly efficiency; these are fairly large, tough animals. 
The deadliness of the Magnum in a rifle comes as no surprise to me. 


At least five years ago, Tom Robinson of Marlin made up an over double rifle for me in this caliber, using the now defunct Model 90 action in 20-gauge size. 


After figuring out how to regulate the barrels so that they shot to the same point of impact, we fired this little 20-inch-barrel job on my home range and in Marlin's underground test gallery. 


We quickly ran into the same trouble that plagued Bill Ruger in his first experiments : Three or four bullets would be placed well in a six-inch bull at 100 yards and then, unaccountably, one could stray far out of the group. 
Ruger learned that this was because the higher velocity achieved in a long barrel was upsetting the shape of the unjacketed revolver bullet. 


The new, jacketed slug in Magnum corrected this. 


But even without jacketed bullets, I had enough faith in my double to take it on an opening-day deer hunt that first year. 


Within half an hour I jumped a six-point buck that hop-skipped through a rhododendron thicket, and I caught him just behind the left foreleg at 60 yards. 


He moved only about 30 feet after the 240-grain slug hit him -- and this was after the bullet had passed through a sapling. 
Three more deer have fallen to this same gun, and all were one-shot kills. 


My double was made with standard-weight revolver barrels (before cutting to revolver length), and although it compares well in other respects, it's considerably heavier than the Deerstalker, which only scales about 6-12 pounds. 
If ever a rifle met the needs of the whitetail hunter, this is it. 


The Deerstalker points with the ease, speed and precision of a fine imported double shotgun, and its trigger pull is light and sharp. 


The 240-grain bullet leaves the muzzle at 1,850 fps, which gives it all the smash needed at woods ranges. 


With five shots at the immediate command of the hunter's trigger finger, the gun and load are a deadly combination. 
The second really new development this year was a revolver handling a different sort of varmint load -- the Remington Jet Magnum Center Fire . 


At present it's available in one model, the fine and familiar Smith & Wesson Magnum revolver (about $ 110), long a top-quality handgun among target arms. 


The velocity of this, 40-grain bullet is rated at a very hot 2,460 fps, and it's the flattest shooting of any revolver cartridge, with a mid-range rise of about an inch over a 100-yard range. 


This is a varmint load, pure and simple; it's much too explosive for small edible game. 


It can cut a red squirrel neatly in two or burst a crow into a flurry of feathers. 
The most intriguing aspect of the S & W Magnum chambered for the new Jet is that it can also fire standard rim-fires by means of adapter sleeves in the chambers. 


You may therefore convert the gun into a small-game and plinking arm, although the difference in the point of impact (Jet vs. rim-fire) can be somewhat disconcerting. 


The accuracy of the Jet cartridge is fine; I tested it in my scoped S & W and it was good enough to allow me to hit a chuck with every shot at 100 yards if I did my part by holding the handgun steadily. 
Hunting rifles, '61 The fact that the Deerstalker and the Jet were the only completely new designs this year doesn't mean that 1961 didn't see changes in models, actions and calibers. 


Aside from the Ruger carbine, a number of hunting rifles have been introduced for the first time. 


Here are the brands (in alphabetical order) and the new models. 
Newcomers to the American hunter are the Browning group of bolt-action, high-power rifles. 


They have fine FN actions and a better-than-average finish on both the metal and the stock wood. 


Barrel weights vary sensibly with the various calibers available, and these include the standard bores (about $ 165) plus the Magnums (around $ 170); the latter include the, S & H,, and. 


Shotgun-type rubber recoil pads are standard on all of the Magnums except the. 
Stock designs are excellent for use with scopes. 
Colt's center-fire 1961 rifles are all made with Sako actions, regardless of caliber. 


The have the short action; the and, the medium action, and the, Afj and the Magnums, the long action (about $ 135 for the Standard Coltsman and $ 200 for the Custom version). 


Previously, FN actions were used for the larger cartridges. 
High Standard has introduced a auto, the Sport-King, in two grades -- field and special (less than $ 45 and just over $ 45, respectively). 


It's a streamlined rifle, fast and well-made. 
Among Magnum Rim-Fire rifles, 1961's lone newcomer was the Kodiak Model 260 autoloader (around $ 60). 


Previously known as Jefferson Arms, Kodiak has given this 11-shot hammerless job an exceptionally fine stock design, and the 260 is the first autoloader to handle Magnum rim-fires. 
Marlin has made two contributions to the harvest of new offerings. 


The Model 99 (under $ 45) is a light-weight, streamlined rim-fire auto with a tubular magazine that holds 18 Long Rifles. 


It's extremely accurate for an auto, and the test rifle I tried was completely trouble-free in functioning. 


The 989 (about $ 40) is an even newer auto, this one with a seven - or 12-shot clip. 
Once again the Mossberg Targo outfit has appeared, but this time as a bolt-action rifle-shotgun combination. 


The bore is unrifled but is provided with an insert tube which is rifled and which, surprisingly, gives pretty fair accuracy even though it's only 3-12 inches long. 


You can unscrew this tube and replace it with a smoothbore insert for use with shotshells -- to break the little Targo clay targets. 


A trap for throwing these miniature clays fastens to the barrel so that the shooter can throw his own targets. 


A spring trap for solid mounting and a regular hand trap are also available. 


You can have your choice of a seven-shot repeater, the 340TR (about $ 40) or a single-shot, the 320TR ($ 10 less). 
The Targo is a good outfit for fun shooting or for economic wing-shooting practice, but it's tougher than it looks to run up a score on the clay birds. 


They'll travel 50 feet or more when thrown from the spring trap but it's almost impossible to break one after it passes the 35-foot mark. 


The combination of thin pattern and very tiny pellets makes it necessary to get on the birds, right now!! 
Big Magnum calibers appeared in the Remington line for 1961, with the addition of the and to the list of Model 725's. 
These are made on special order only, in Kodiak grade (about $ 310), with integral muzzle brakes and heavy rubber recoil pads; they weigh around nine pounds. 
A shortened version of the highly regarded Remington 742 autoloader also appeared in 1961. 


This carbine (under $ 140, about $ 15 more for a deluxe grade) has an 18-12-inch barrel and was obviously inspired by the popularity of last year's Model 760 pump with a short-barrel. 


This design is hard to beat for timber hunting or for packing in a saddle scabbard. 


Presently, the 742C is available in Afj. 
The latest versions of the famous Savage Model 99 are the 99 Featherweight (about $ 125) and the 99 Deluxe (under $ 135), which have a top-tang safety and improved trigger design. 


The replacement of the slide-lock side safety catch will make this lever-action favorite more appealing than ever since the new safety is easier and faster to operate. 
Beginners' guns, '61 A fresh crop of beginners' guns showed up in 1961, and they're good bets for your Christmas gift list if you're wondering what to get for a youngster. 


The most unusual of them is the Ithaca 49 (about $ 20, $ 5 for a saddle scabbard) -- a lever-action single-shot patterned after the famous Winchester lever-action and featuring the Western look. 


Because of its traditional lines, it probably has more kid appeal than any other model. 


The action is a drop-block, handling all the standard rim-fires. 
Marlin's latest is also designed for the beginning shooter, although it's a full-sized rifle with plenty of barrel weight and ample stock. 


This is the Model 122 (about $ 20); it's a single-shot bolt-action with an automatic safety -- i.e., the safety goes on every time the bolt is lifted and the gun cocked for the next shot. 


Stock design is excellent, and this model is a good first gun. 


Another boy's model is the single-shot Remington 514C (around $ 20), which comes with a 21-inch barrel and a short -- 12-12-inch -- stock; it's just right for a boy of 12-12. 
A beginner's shotgun has also been introduced this year. 


The single-barrel Stevens 940Y (under $ 35) is made with a side lever rather than a top-tang lever because many youngsters aren't strong enough to operate a top tang to open a gun -- and the side lever does indeed open very easily. 


This gun has a 12-12-inch stock and is available in either 20 or gauge. 


There's another addition to the Stevens line, the pump-action Model 77 in (under $ 75), which you may or may not consider a kid's gun; many experienced hunters like this gauge and type of scattergun too. 
Shotguns, '61 Although there were no startling developments in shotgun design this year, a number of new models and variations of existing models did hit the market. 


For example, a Browning trap version of the Superposed over, the Broadway (from $ 350 up, depending on grade), differs from standard models in that it is equipped with a full beavertail fore end, a cushion recoil pad and a barrel-wide ventilated rib for fast sighting. 
The Colt line now includes a new scattergun, the Standard or Custom Pump Model (about $ 90 and $ 150, respectively) in 12, 16 and 20. 
Firearms International has introduced another import, this one from Finland. 


It's the Valmet (about $ 170), a 12-gauge over very much like the old Remington 32 -- which was so fine a gun that today a used one still brings high prices. 
High Standard has also added two models to its line. 


The Supermatic Trophy (prices begin at less than $ 135 and depend on grade and optional features) is a 12-gauge auto. 


The Flite-King Trophy (beginning at just over $ 85) is a pump gun in 12 or 16. 


Either model is a very good dollar value. 
Mossberg's latest contribution to the field is the Model 500 (from $ 73.50); this is an improved version of the old Model 200, a pump-action 12-gauge shotgun. 


See page 24 for a complete report on it. 
Handguns, '61 Aside from the Jet -- which I coupled with the Deerstalker carbine as one of the year's two biggest developments -- few significant innovations appeared among 1961's handguns. 



Livery stable -- J. Vernon, prop. 
''. 


Coaching had declined considerably by 1905, but the sign was still there, near the old Wells Fargo building in San Francisco, creaking in the fog as it had for thirty years. 


John Vernon had had all the patronage he cared for -- he had prospered, but he could not retire from horsedom. 


Coaching was in his blood. 


He had two interests in life : the pleasures of the table and driving. 


Twice a week he drove his tallyho over the Santa Cruz road, upland and through the redwood forest, with orchards below him at one hand, and glimpses of the Pacific at the other. 


The journey back he made along the coast road, traveling hell-for-leather, every lantern of the tallyho ablaze. 
The southward route was the classic run in California, and the most fashionable. 


His patronage on this stretch was made up largely of San Franciscans -- regulars, most of them, and trenchermen like himself. 


They did not complain at the inhuman hour of starting (seven in the morning), nor of the tariff, which was reasonable since it covered everything but the tobacco. 


Breakfast was at the Palace Hotel, luncheon was somewhere in the mountain forest, and dinner was either at Boulder Creek or at Santa Cruz. 
Gazing too long at the scenery could be tiring, so halts were contrived between meals. 


Then the Chinese hostler, who rode with Vernon on the box, would break open a hamper and produce filets of smoked bass or sturgeon, sandwiches, pickled eggs, and a rum sangaree to be heated over a spirit lamp. 
In spring and in autumn the run was made for a group of botanists which included an old friend of mine. 


They gathered roots, bulbs, odd ferns, leaves, and bits of resin from the rare Santa Lucia fir, which exists only on a forty-five mile strip on the westerly side of these mountains. 


In the Spanish days Franciscan monks roamed here to collect the resin for incense. 


It yields a fragrance as Orphic as that of the pastilles of Malabar. 


Vernon was serviceable on the botanical field trips, but he could arrange no schedule with the cooks, and he was glad when the trips dropped off, and the botanists began to motor out by themselves. 
My friend often breakfasted with Vernon on the morning of the regular tallyho run. 


This was an honor, like dining with a captain at his private table. 


Vernon's office adjoined the stable, and the walls were adorned with brightly colored lithographs, the folk art of the period. 


They advertised harness polish, liniments, Ball's Rubber Boots, Green River Whiskey, Hood's Sarsaparilla , patent medicines, shoe blacking, and chewing tobacco. 
The hostler would have the table ready and a pot of coffee hissing on the stove; then a porter from Manning's Fish House would trot in with a tray on his head. 


It was draped with snowy napkins that kept hot a platter of oyster salt roast and a mound of corn fritters. 


Vernon was consummately fond of oysters, and Manning's had been famous for them since the Civil War. 


Oyster salt roast -- oysters on the half shell, cooked on a bed of coarse salt that kept them hot when served -- was a standby at Manning's. 


Its early morning patrons were coachmen, who fortified themselves for the day with that delicacy. 
In the 1890's the Palace Hotel began serving an oyster dish named after its manager, John C. Kirkpatrick. 


This dish much resembles the oysters Rockefeller made famous by Antoine's in New Orleans, though the Palace chef announced it as a variant of Manning's roast oysters. 


(Gastronomes have long argued about which came first, the Palace's or Antoine's. 


Antoine's held as mandatory a splash of absinthe or Pernod on the parsley or spinach which was used for the underbedding. 


The Kirkpatrick version holds liqueur as optional. 


) Vernon, however, held out for plain oyster roast, and plenty of it, unadorned by herbs or any seasoning but salt, though he did fancy a bit of lemon. 
After the meal, he and his guests went out to inspect the rig; this was merely a ritual, to please all hands concerned. 
The tallyho had cost Vernon $ 2,300. 


A replica of two coaches made in England for the Belmont Club in the East, and matchless west of the Rockies, it was the despair of whips on the Santa Cruz run. 


One could shave in the reflection of its French-polished panels, and its axles were greased like those of roulette wheels. 


The horses were groomed to a high gloss; departing, they stepped solemnly with knees lifted to the jaw, for they had been trained to drag at important funerals. 
But for the start of the Santa Cruz run, the whip fell. 


The clients boarded the tallyho at the Palace promptly at seven. 


They had been fed a hunting breakfast, so called because a kedgeree, the dish identified with fox hunting, was on the bill. 


There are many ways of making a kedgeree, every one of which is right. 


Here is an original kedgeree recipe from the Family Club's kitchen : Club Kedgeree Flake (for three) a cupful of cold boiled haddock, mix with a cupful of cooked rice, two minced hard-boiled eggs, some buttery white sauce done with cream, cayenne, pepper, salt, a pinch of curry, a tablespoonful of minced onion fried, and a bit of anchovy. 


Heat and serve hot on toast. 
The omelet named for Ernest Arbogast, the Palace's chef, was even more in demand. 


For decades it was the most popular dish served in the Ladies' Grill at breakfast, and it is one of the few old Palace dishes that still survive. 


Native California oysters, salty and piquant, as coppery as Delawares and not much larger than a five-cent piece, went into it. 


The original formula goes thus : omelet Arbogast Fry in butter a small minced onion, rub with a tablespoonful of flour, add half a cup of cream, six beaten eggs, pepper, celery salt, a teaspoonful of minced chives, a dash of cayenne, and a pinch of nutmeg. 


A jigger of dry Sherry follows, and as the mixture stiffens, in go a hundred of the little oysters. 
Louis Sherry once stayed a fortnight at the Palace, and he was so pleased with omelet Arbogast that he introduced it at his restaurant in New York. J. Pierpont Morgan had come in his private train to San Francisco, to attend an Episcopal convention, and brought the restaurateur with him. 


As things happened, Morgan was installed in the Nob Hill residence of a magnate friend, whose kitchen swarmed with cooks of approved talent. 


Sherry remained in his hotel suite, where he amused himself as best he could. 


Twice he left everything to his entourage, and fled to make the Santa Cruz tour under Vernon's guidance. 
In the grand court of the Palace, notable for its tiers of Moorish galleries that looked down on the maelstrom of vehicles below, Vernon's station was at the entrance. 


It was a post of honor, held inviolate for him; he had the primacy among the coachmen. 


Of majestic build, rubicund and slash-mouthed, he resembled the late General Winfield Scott, who was said to be the most imposing general of his century, if not of all centuries. 


Vernon wore a gray tall hat, a gardenia, and maroon Wellington boots that glistened like currant jelly. 
Promptly at seven he would clatter out of the court with twelve in the tallyho. 


He had style : he held his reins in a loose bunch at the third button of his checked Epsom surtout, and when the horses leaned at a curve, as if bent by the force of a gale, he leaned with them. 


They cantered down the peninsula, not slackening until the coach reached Woodside where the Santa Cruz uplands begin. 
The road maps of the region have changed since 1905; inns have burned down, moved elsewhere, or taken other names. 


Once on the road (and especially if the passengers were all regulars and masculine), the schedule meant nothing. 


An agreeable ease suffused Vernon and the passengers of the tallyho, from which there issued clouds of smoke. 


Vernon would tilt his hat over one ear as he lounged with his feet on the dashboard, indulging in a huge cigar. 


The horses moved at a clump; they were no more on parade than was their driver; one fork of the road was as good as another. 


The Santa Cruz mountains sprawl over three counties, and the roads twist through sky-tapping redwoods down whose furrowed columns ripple streams of rain, even when heat bakes the Santa Clara valley below at the left. 


The water splashes into shoulder-high tracts of fernery. 


You arrive there in seersucker, and feel you were half-witted not to bring a mackintosh. 
Vernon kept an account book with a list of all the establishments that he thought worthy of patronage. 


A number of them must have fallen into disfavor; they were struck out with remarks in red ink, denouncing both the cooks and the management. 


He was copious in his praise of those that served food that was good to eat. 


The horses seemed to know these by instinct, he used to say : such places invariably had stables with superior feed bins. 
There was Wright's, for one, lost amongst trees, its wide verandas strewn with rockers. 


Many of its sojourners were devoted to seclusion and quiet, and lived there to the end of their days. 


It was the haunt of writer Ambrose Bierce, who admired its redwoods. 


Acorns from the great oaks fed the small black pigs (akin to Berkshires), whose "carcass sweepstakes" were renowned. 
Their ham butts, cured in oak-log smoke, were also esteemed when roasted or boiled, and served with this original sauce : Wright's devil sauce; put into a saucepan a cupful of the baked ham gravy, or of the boiled ham liquor, with a half stick of butter, three teaspoonfuls of made mustard, and two mashed garlic cloves. 
Contribute also an onion, a peeled tomato and two pickled gherkins, and a mashed lime. 


After this has simmered an hour, add two tablespoons each of Worcestershire, catsup, and chutney, two pickled walnuts, and a pint of Sherry. 


Then simmer fifteen minutes longer. 
Every winter a kegful of this sauce was made and placed at the end of a row of four other kegs in the cellar, so that when its turn came, it was properly mellowed. 
Vineyards and orchards also grew around Wright's, and deer were rather a nuisance; they leaped six-foot fences with the agility of panthers. 


But no one complained when they wound up, regardless of season, in venison pies. 


No one complained of the white wine either : at this altitude of two thousand feet, grapes acquire a dryness and the tang of gunflint. 


(The Almaden vineyards have now climbed to this height. 


) Apple trees grew there also. 
Though creeks in the Santa Cruz mountains flow brimful the year round and it is forever spring, the apples that grow there have a wintry crackle. 
Dwellers thereabouts preferred to get their apple pies at the local bakery, which had a brick oven fired with redwood billets. 


The merit of the pie, Vernon believed, was due more to its making than to the waning heat of the oven. 


The recipe, which he got from the baker, and wrote down in his ledger, is basically this : Wright's apple pie; peel, core, and slice across enough apples to make a dome in the pie tin, and set aside. 


In a saucepan put sufficient water to cover them, an equal amount of sugar, a sliced lemon, a tablespoonful of apricot preserve or jam, a pinch each of clove and nutmeg, and a large bay leaf. 


Let this boil gently for twenty minutes, then strain. 


Poach the apples in this syrup for twelve minutes, drain them, and cool. 
Set the apples in the pastry-lined tin, spread over them three tablespoonfuls of softened butter, with as much brown sugar, a sprinkling of nutmeg, and a fresh bay leaf, then lay on a cover of pastry, and gild it with beaten yolk of egg. 



Those who have never traveled the width and length of this land can not conceive, on the basis of textbook description alone, the overwhelming space and variety of this country held together under one government. 


The miracle of democratic America comes home to one most strongly only when one has seen the endless Great Plains of the Midwest; the sky-reaching peaks of the Northwest mountains; the smoke-filled, art-filled, drama-filled life of the great cities of the East; the lush and historic charm of the South. 


Now, to add to the already unbelievable extremes found in one nation, we have the two new states of Hawaii and Alaska. 
To hope to cover just one region of this land and to enjoy all of its sights and events and, of course, to bring back pictures of your experiences, requires advance planning. 


For this reason, U.S. Camera has prepared this special U.S.A. vacation feature. 


We divided the country into five regions plus Hawaii and Alaska and in each is included a general description of the area plus specific recommendations of places and events to cover. 


Any special photographic requirements are also given. 
Use this section to plan now to make the most of your vacation in photogenic America. 
The Northeast birthplace of the nation, the Northeast offers historic battlefields; lovely old villages and a rugged seashore among its many worthwhile sights. 


The rolling farms of Maryland, the peerless metropolis of New York City, the verdant mountains of Vermont can all be included in your Northeast vacation. 
By automobile from New York, for example, you can take a one or two-day tour to Annapolis, Maryland to see the colonial homes and the U.S. Naval Academy (where you can shoot the dress parade on Wednesdays); to Washington, D.C., for an eye-filling tour of the city; or to Lancaster, Pa., the center of the Pennsylvania Dutch country; Philadelphia with its historic buildings and nearby Valley Forge; to West Point, N.Y., the famous military academy in a beautiful setting on the Hudson River. 
New England deserves as much of your vacation time as you can afford with such areas as Cape Cod providing wonderful beaches, artists' colonies and quaint townships. 
From here you can easily include a side trip to the old whaling port of Nantucket, Massachusetts, which looks just as it must have two centuries ago. 
At Sturbridge Village, Massachusetts, you'll find a completely-restored New England town. 


North to Acadia National Park, Maine, with views of a rockbound coast and dark, magnificent forests. 
One of the most exciting ways to end a Northeast vacation would be with a week in New York City. 


Return through New England, stopping for a visit to Lake Champlain where you can take a boat ride and go to Ethan Allen Park. 


There you'll witness a view which includes the Adirondack Mts. and the Winooski River. 
Now you're ready for a whirlwind sightseeing tour of America's most exciting city. 


The skyline, the bridges, Broadway, and the Staten Island ferry are only a few of the spots to put on your "must" list for New York City. 
Photographing in the Northeast Some tips for shooting in Northeastern locales : In New York City don't miss coverage of the United Nations. 
These striking, modernistic buildings on the East River are open to the public and every weekday guided tours are available. 


Pictures can be taken in the public areas and when on tours. 


However, the use of tripods is not allowed. 


Photos of Conference Rooms and the General Assembly Hall can be made when these rooms are not being used for meetings. 


Flash is allowed, subject to above restrictions. 
Around New England, you'll no doubt want a color shot of one of the picturesque lighthouses. 


Be careful here not to overexpose this subject since they are extremely bright and light-reflecting. 


In color, 150th of a second between Afj and Afj will do for bright, frontal sunlight. 
The South the southern United States, extending from Florida in the east to Texas in the west, still maintains its unique flavor of gracious living and historical elegance. 


It encompasses in its expanse areas where the natural beauty encourages a vacation of quiet contemplation, on the one hand, to places where entertainment and spectacles of all sorts have been provided for the tourist with camera. 
Of special interest this anniversary year of the war between the states are the many Civil War battlefields where, likely as not, you'll catch some memorial re-enactments. 


Among the locales to visit are Shiloh, Tennessee; Lookout Mountain, Tennessee; Vicksburg, Mississippi; Richmond, Virginia; Petersburg, Virginia, and Fredericksburg, Virginia. 
Florida provides tropical scenes unequalled in the United States. 


At Cypress Gardens special bleachers are set up for photographers at water-ski shows and lovely models pose for pictures in garden settings. 


Silver Springs features glass-bottom boat rides and in Everglades National Park there are opportunities to photograph rare wildlife. 


Miami Beach and surroundings feature fabulous "hotel row", palm-studded beaches plus the Miami Seaquarium and Parrot Jungle. 
One of the most delightful spots in a southern tour is the city of New Orleans. 


The famous old French and Spanish buildings with their elaborate wrought iron balconies and the narrow streets of the Latin Quarter present an Old World scene.
